docs/feature-tour/form-templates.md, before:

# Form Templates
Form templates allow you to create custom templates for the rendering the form, page, rows and fields that Formie creates. It also provides a means to control any CSS and JS used in the front-end templates. Each [Form](docs:developers/form), can be assigned a form template, so you can have multiple form templates for a variety of different requirements.

<img src="https://verbb.io/uploads/plugins/formie/formie-templates.png" />

By default, Formie comes with a set of front-end templates for your form, which also include CSS and JS. This is designed for the vast majority of cases where a functionality and visually appealing form needs to be outputted on the page. For any form template, you can enable or disable the following:

- Base-level CSS for layout
- Theme-level CSS for opinionated styles
- JavaScript for validation, Ajax submission and more

## Form Fields
For each form template, you can also add custom fields, which will be added to the form builder. Similar to other elements, you can include group fields into tabs. Each tab will appear in the order you specify on the form builder. 

## Custom Templates
You can provide your own custom templates to control every aspect of the form's output. Create a new form template, and assign the "HTML Template" field to the template directory your custom templates sit. For example, if your templates exist in `templates/_forms`, you would enter `_forms`.

You can choose to use Formie's provided CSS and JS, or provide your own.

:::tip
You'll notice there's a "Copy Templates" field. You can use this to copy the default template into the provided folder to get off to an even quicker start to customize the template.
:::

For more information about the actual templating for form templates, head to our [Form Templates](docs:template-guides/form-templates) templating guide.

Commit message:

Added tips/warnings for custom templates.

docs/feature-tour/form-templates.md, after:

# Form Templates
Form templates allow you to create custom templates for the rendering the form, page, rows and fields that Formie creates. It also provides a means to control any CSS and JS used in the front-end templates. Each [Form](docs:developers/form), can be assigned a form template, so you can have multiple form templates for a variety of different requirements.

<img src="https://verbb.io/uploads/plugins/formie/formie-templates.png" />

By default, Formie comes with a set of front-end templates for your form, which also include CSS and JS. This is designed for the vast majority of cases where a functionality and visually appealing form needs to be outputted on the page. For any form template, you can enable or disable the following:

- Base-level CSS for layout
- Theme-level CSS for opinionated styles
- JavaScript for validation, Ajax submission and more

## Form Fields
For each form template, you can also add custom fields, which will be added to the form builder. Similar to other elements, you can include group fields into tabs. Each tab will appear in the order you specify on the form builder. 

## Custom Templates
You can provide your own custom templates to control every aspect of the form's output. Create a new form template, and assign the "HTML Template" field to the template directory your custom templates sit. For example, if your templates exist in `templates/_forms`, you would enter `_forms`.

:::warning
By overriding template files, you will no longer receive bug fixes and improvements. For more information on how to customize templates without overriding template files, please refer to the [hooks documentation](docs:developers/hooks).
:::

You can choose to use Formie's provided CSS and JS, or provide your own.

:::tip
You'll notice there's a "Copy Templates" field. You can use this to copy the default template into the provided folder to get off to an even quicker start to customize the template.
:::

For more information about the actual templating for form templates, head to our [Form Templates](docs:template-guides/form-templates) templating guide.
